---
title: Small Tweaks
tags: lime, dev
layout: post
author: Vanity
---
Did a bit of tweaking to lime today. Turns out some (most) of my template stuff wasn't even working properly. Took me a while to figure out why but the reason should've been obvious: __you can't access private (unexported) struct fields from a template__ in Go. Doh!

Now that I have that sorted out by dumping all the important data in a huge nested `map[string]interface{}` (already one of my favorite thingies because of the awesome literal sauce) everything is fine and I can create templates like this simple test index page:

    ---
    title: Home
    layout: master
    ---
    <table>
        {{`{{range .site.posts}}`}}
        <tr>
            <td><a href="{{`{{.url}}`}}">{{`{{.title}}`}}</a></td>
            <td>{{`{{.date}}`}}</td>
            <td>{{`{{.tags}}`}}</td>
        </tr>
        {{`{{end}}`}}
    </table>
    <pre>Generated at {{`{{.site.time}}`}}</pre>

Which is kind of getting me to the point where this thing starts to be useful. I have some more mapping to do and the code is getting fugly but I'm going for _stuff that works_ first as I'm not sure about how to best organise everything yet. 

Still though, it's not too bad (although the file is getting a bit large for my taste) and it should not be too hard to refactor out the little bit of duplication that exists.

By the way, it was actually kind of hard to get the template to appear properly because lime kept replacing my tags with actual values from this post's metadata. In the end, I just forced the raw strings using template syntax <code>{{`{{&#x60;template stuff here&#x60;}}`}}</code> (imagine how much pain it was to get __that__ to appear properly by the way).