## Trying out Netflix/falcor
Falcor is a JavaScript library for efficient data fetching developed by 
Netflix. A developer preview came out recently and although I glanced over the
features and documentation I didn't really play around with it yet.

However, today I was looking over some of the definition requests for the
Definitly Typed repository and there's an [open request](https://github.com/borisyankov/DefinitelyTyped/issues/5412)
to create some definition files for it. Because I like trying out new stuff and
also because I'm a huge TypeScript fan I decided to take another more in depth
look at Falcor to get a better understanding about it.

I started with the [README.md](https://github.com/Netflix/falcor) which
includes a basic example to get you started. Unfortunately this assumes that
you're gonna consume the data from a browser environment and that was not
exactly what I had in mind. I have a strong preference for experimenting from
the command line so I tried to get the example working so I could just
experiment with `curl` (or, in this case, the PowerShell equivalent 
`Invoke-WebRequest` which is conveniently aliased to `curl` anyway).

The first part of the readme goes into creating a simple Falcor application
server as Express middleware. Easy enough. I implemented it and started it up
exactly the application server. This got my resource hosted at 
`http://localhost:3000/model.json`. But then I ran into a little snag when I 
tried to `GET` it using `curl`. Somewhat naïvely I assumed I could just do a 
`GET` at the published URL and get some result:

	PS> invoke-webrequest -uri http://localhost:3000/model.json -method GET
	
Unfortunately, it turns out things are not *that* because this resulted in: 
	
	`curl : Request not supported` 
	
Fine. Back to the README for more information.

Looking at the browser example, requests to a Falcor resource have to go via a 
`falcor.Model` which is is hooked up to a `falcor.HttpDataSource`. So the first
thing I tried was:

	PS> npm install falcor --save
	
This (unsurprisingly) worked and it installed the `falcor` module. Thinking
this was the missing piece I created a `test.js` file which basically is the
same as the browser example code:

	var falcor = require('falcor');
	
	var model = new falcor.Model({
		source: new falcor.HttpDataSource('http://localhost:3000/model.json')
	});
	
	model.get('greeting').then(function (res) {
		console.log(res);
	});
	
Thinking this might work I tried to execute it but then ran into another error:

	TypeError: falcor.HttpDataSource is not a function
	
This got me scratching my head for a bit but feeling I was getting close I
didn't wanna give up just yet. Then I noticed [this issue comment](https://github.com/Netflix/falcor/issues/512#issuecomment-137532297)
that mentions a `falcor-http-datasource` module so I tried to install that:

	PS> npm install falcor-http-datasource --save
	
Which, to my delight, worked. It installed the module and inspecting the source
it turns out it's exporting something called `XMLHttpSource`. Just wanting to
get some results I tried the first thing that came up and just `required` the 
module in my `test.js` file:

	var falcor = require('falcor'),
		HttpDataSource = require('falcor-http-datasource');
		
	var model = new falcor.Model({
		source: new HttpDataSource('http://localhost:3000/model.json')
	});
	
	model.get('greeting').then(function (res) {
		console.log(res);
	});
	
Note that I also had to change `new falcor.HttpDataSource` to 
`new HttpDataSource` but with these two simple changes I was finally able to
use `curl` to `GET` the resource.